[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: Let's take stock of where
we've been through this workshop.
There's an awful lot that we've gone over.
Started at the beginning with callbacks.
Looked at the disadvantages,
the shortcomings of callbacks and
thinking about the call back hell,
it's this notion of.
>> Kyle: Inversion of control and
non-local and non-sequential reasoning.
We looked at thunks, and they didn't
really have any solutions to that.
But thunks at least gave us
a conceptual underpinning for
values that are time independent.
Removing time as a state complexity.
Thunks led us into our
discussion of promises.
And promises are not only that, but
they are also a solution to inversion of
control because the way they're built is
designed to create a trustable system and
predictable system around
the way callbacks are behaving.
Generators, generators are the other
part of callback hell being solved,
giving us a localized pauseable stack.
With local stack execution and local
error handling and that sort of thing.
So we now have blocking sequential
synchronous looking code,
that under the covers is factored away,
that the asynchronicity is happening.
Those are great.
That's our baseline.
But then we say well how are we gonna
to adapt an event based programming,
cuz there are lots of events that we
deal with in modern complex APIs.
Well, turns out observables
are a great way of doing it.
We looked at a lightweight version
of observables that I call
reactive sequences.
Finally the CSP go-routines is kind
of like, if observables are just over
the horizon, CSP is the thing
that's coming on right behind it.
So a couple years from now
everybody's going to be thinking wow,
why didn't I get on the CSP train earlier.
So, we've come a long way, and the point
that I wanna make with the slide is,
there's no one item on this list that
replaces all the other items on the list.
There's no silver bullet.
There's no one thing.
I hear this from time to time.
I hear people in the reactive programming
world say, why do I ever need a promise,
cuz I can model everything
with an observable.
And I hear people in the CSP world saying,
why do I ever need an observable cuz I
can model everything with the stream.
I can see that to be a very immature,
naive way of looking at what we're doing.
So the reason for this workshop.
The reason this workshop exists is to show
you all of these different tools, and
to have you come away with
a better appreciation for
where they all fit in in the bigger
scheme of what we're building.
No one tool here is gonna be
your solution from now on.
But the collection of all these tools,
is a significant jump forward,
not just a little bit.
But orders a magnitude jump forward for
your ability to expressively show
asynchronous coding in your programs.
>> Kyle: So to really hammer
that point home, I built, so
I don't know why I hit escape.
I built a thing a couple of weeks ago and
released it,
it's called A Tale of Three Lists.
I'm gonna show you this demo, but
let me tell you why this thing exists.
Anybody ever heard of
the to do MVC Project?
Some of you are probably nodding
your heads, you've heard of it.
What was the point of to do MVC was,
everybody that has their own special
framework that they're like this
is the magical silver bullet.
They got an opportunity to solve
the exact same problem using their code.
Well now you have, I don't even
know how many like 30, 40, 100,000,
who knows how many projects
that have been submitted there.
Where everybody who has their
own special unicorn framework,
gets to show off the way they
do it to do [INAUDIBLE] okay?
But what about asynchronous programming?
I decided to set out and create the to
do MVC for asynchronous programming.
And that's what a tale of three lists is.
It's a slightly more complex
than just a fubar kinda thing.
It's more complex cuz
when I show you the demo,
there's events firing all over the place,
and pauses and stuff like that.
But then I went and implemented
the same demo seven different times,
using seven different
asynchronous patterns.
The stuff that we've gone
over in this workshop,
I implemented the same code base,
side by side, seven different ways.
And I'm open to contributions from
others who may have other patterns that
have relative strengths and weaknesses.
But the point is we now have seven side
by side code bases doing exactly the same
task, but different ways
with different strengths and
weaknesses, as a learning tool.
And that's what I wanna get across.
If you haven't heard anything else
I've said, be able to go through and
say I see how the promises one works,
and then I come and
look at the observables one, and I see
places where that's much more powerful.
But there'll be places where
the observables have some awkwardness.
And so we can go and
look at the CSP one and say,
wow the CSP one is better at
that than the observables one.
And the take away is,
find the best tools for
any given part of your application and
apply them maturely.
So, let me show you the demo real quick.
>> Kyle: This is the repo by the way.
So I'm actively open to other people
submitting and improving things.
But here is the demo, and
this is the one using callbacks.
But they all behave exactly the same, so.
>> Kyle: So what this is,
is there is a producer that's producing
messages every 50 milliseconds, and
I have two different listeners that are
sampling that stream at different speeds.
So over here I'm sampling at once every I
think 900 millisecond,s or something and
over here every 600 milliseconds.
I don't remember what the numbers are.
But I'm sampling them at different
speeds and printing them into this list.
In addition to them being sampled at
different speeds, I'm also listening to
clicks on these, and when you click on
the item it adds it to your center list.
So all of these streams or
firing at all these different times,
and in addition if there's a duplicate
it gets marked off of our list.
So this is just randomly
generating all these different
messages that are being added to the list.
Well now you're like well jeez,
I'm getting too many messages.
I need to pause.
So you can pause one or both of the lists.
And when you pause both of the lists,
now the producer who is producing
that message, he stops producing.
Because if he kept producing and
nobody was consuming, well now you'd be
wasting crazy amounts of battery power.
So, it waits for
both consumers to be paused and
it stops producing, and then once
one of them starts consuming again,
he starts sending them out
every 50 milliseconds.
So, the point that I'm making is if I
were to pull up the CSP one for example.
It's the exact same behavior here but
implemented with CSP semantics.
So if we run the CSP one.
If I pause both of these lists, and
there's nothing happening in the app.
We should be able to open up and
do a profile, a JavaScript CPU profile.
And we should be able to see that nothing
is happening because everything has
been paused.
And in CSP that's super easy,
cuz if nobody is consuming
then it doesn't matter how many times
you try to push something out, right?
So that part I got for
free with the CSP implementation.
Whereas with the callbacks you
had to do a lot more work.
But let's collect the CPU
profile real quick.
And I'll just let it run for
a couple of seconds as I'm talking.
Nothing's happening in
the background of the page, so
we should expect basically
an empty profile.
And you'll notice that idle was
the only thing that was happening.
>> Kyle: [COUGH] If you look at the delta,
the difference between the callback
implementation, and
the CSP implementation.
It takes a whole lot more work to
make that same capability happen.
So this is a more sophisticated demo than
most people show off asynchronicity.
And the reason I wanted to do that is,
it's really easy to miss the important
details when you have trivial,
hello world examples.
So I wanted to have something
that's more sophisticated,
more real world looking-ish.
Maybe not quite as sophisticated
as a To-Do app, but it's
more real world-ish from the perspective
of events and asynchronous programming.